Python Y86 Utility
========
Copyright (c) 2012 Linus Yang <laokongzi@gmail.com>

--------

The Python Y86 utility includes an **assembler** '*yas*' and a **pipelined simulator** '*pipe*' for **Y86**, a simplified x86-like ISA described in CMU's *CSAPP*.

'yas.py' and 'pipe.py', the two single scripts are the main programs written in Python. They are extremely **portable** and could be run on any platform supporting Python.

**One more thing**, both scripts are fully compatible with [Shedskin](https://code.google.com/p/shedskin/wiki/docs), an *RPython to C++ compiler*, which can compile the *Python script* into *binary executables* to **improve performance significantly**.

Both scripts are run in **command-line** terminal. Type with '-h' to show help and available options. You can find the latest version on my personal [Github site](https://github.com/linusyang/python-y86).

## Y86 Assembler
The Python Y86 assember 'py-yas' behaves like the *CSAPP* official 'yas' assembler. But It is more **powerful** and able to generate two kinds of Y86 object file, *ASCII object* and *binary object* in the same folder of '.ys' assembly source.

The **ASCII object** '*.yo*' file is **fully compatible** with the *CSAPP* official 'yis' or 'psim' simulator and very friendly to read. The **binary object** '*.ybo*' file is generated for the pipelined simulator to execute.

### Features:
- Support **all instructions** of Y86 ISA including '*iaddl*', '*leave*' and '*cmovXX*'
- Support labeling and pseudo instructions, e.g. positioning by '.pos' and code alignment by '.align'
- Large memory address support which can generate **large** size object files
- Fully compatible with **Shedskin**
- Flexible options to specify:
  * Object generation using big-endian or little-endian 
  * Using rules in *CSAPP* 1st editon or 2nd edtion

  and more...

## Pipelined Y86 Simulator
The Python pipelined Y86 simulator 'py-pipe' also behaves like the official 'psim' simulator. But it uses **binary object** '*.ybo*' generated by 'py-yas' as input. It also includes five stages: *fetch*, *decode*, *execute*, *memory* and *writeback*.

After execution, the simulator will show brief running results on the screen and generate a log file with full information of each cycle running status. The log syntax is like the official 2nd edtion 'psim' simulator output.

### Features:
- Support **all instructions** of Y86 ISA including '*iaddl*', '*leave*' and '*cmovXX*'
- Could deal with **all 'hazard'** conditions mentioned on *CSAPP*
- Logging with detailed running information of every cycle
- Fully compatible with **Shedskin**
- Flexible options to specify:
  * Object generation using big-endian or little-endian 
  * Using rules in *CSAPP* 1st edition or 2nd edition
  * Setting max running cycles to avoid endless loop

  and more...

## License
This program is distributed under GPLv3.

